# Russian Date Generator

Linguistics Report: 

	Russian dates work a little differently than English dates. First, the day, month and year are not separated by "/" but rather with ".". In Russian, days always come before month and year. This has to do with the structure of how dates are formed in Russian. When referring to a specific day of a month, the day is in ordinal form, which in Russian acts like an adjective. That is, it declines like adjectives do. The day is in prepositional case followed by the specific month. Because we are indicating a day of a specific month, the month is in genitive case, as it is the possessor of the day. Finally, while in English we can refer to the year 2021 as "twenty twenty-one", in Russian this is not possible. Years are always referred to in full numeral form. So, in English it would be "two thousand twenty first year" and the Russian translation would be "две тысячи двадцать первый год." In Russian, when referring to the year, the numeral form of it will always be followed by the Russian word for year, "год." Now, because we are referring to a specific year, the year can be thought of as the possessor of the day and month; therefore, the year must be in genitive case. Hence, "две тысячи двадцать первый год" becomes "две тысячи двадцать первого года." So, if we wanted to put all these ideas together to give a Russian date, as we do in our project, then March 31st, 1997 would be input would be 31.03.1997 and the Russian translation would be "тридцать первое марта тысяча девятьсот девяносто седьмого года."
  
	Now, since we are discussing declining ordinal forms and months into different cases, it is important to know how this works in Russian. So, beginning with the day, as stated above ordinal forms of numbers act like adjectives. They have the same endings as adjectives do in Russian, so all the ordinal forms of the numbers with end with either "-ый" or "-ий" or "-ой", the masculine singular nominative endings of adjectives. Now, to decline an adjective from nominative case to prepositional case, we take off the adjective ending and replace it with "-ое", the masculine singular prepositional adjective ending. Declining the year into genitive case works the same way, we take the last number of the year, which should be an ordinal number ending in "-ый", "-ий", or "-ой". So, we take off the adjective ending and replace it with the genitive masculine singular ending "-ого". Now, this is obviously a very simplified version of Russian adjective declension, and there are some exceptions to this, for example with the ordinal form of three. The nominative masculine singular ordinal form of three is "третий", the prepositional masculine singular form of three is "третье" and the genitive masculine singular form is "третего." 


	Russian months are nouns that can be declined into different cases much like adjectives. However, for the purposes of this project we are only concerned with the genitive case as it pertains to months and the Russian word for year "год." If an adjective ends in a consonant, then "-а" is appended onto the end. So, "год" becomes "года" in genitive singular. If a noun is masculine and ends in the soft sign "-ь" then the "-ь" is deleted and replaced with "-я". If a noun ends in "-й", then "-й" is deleted and replaced with "-я". Since all of the nouns that are used in this project are masculine and singular we do not need to be concerned with feminine, neuter or plural declensions for the genitive or any other case.